In this section, I'll cover Amazon Athena databases and tables.
There are two features that you should know about Amazon Athena tables.
The first one is that all operations that change
table states are ACID compliant,
and the second feature is that all tables are external.
That way, when you drop a table in Athena,
only the table metadata is removed and not the underlying data in Amazon S3.
Athena uses Apache Hive to define tables and create databases.
Athena databases are essentially only a logical namespace of tables.
When you create a database and table in Athena,
you are simply describing the schema and the location where the table
data are located in Amazon S3 for read time querying.
Databases and tables, therefore,
have a slightly different meaning than they do for traditional
relational database systems because the data isn't stored along with
the schema definition for the database and table.
When you create a table,
you specify an Amazon S3 bucket location for the
underlying data using the location clause.
There's many ways to write DDL statements.
You can use the Hive DDL statement directly from Athena's console.
You can use the Athena API, the JDBC/ODBC drivers,
Glue crawlers, and the Glue API for table creation.
If you anticipate changes in table schemas,
consider creating them in a data format that's
suitable for downstream consumption.
Your goals are to reuse existing Athena queries against
evolving schemas and avoid schema mismatch errors when
querying tables with partitions.
Amazon Athena uses schema-on-read versus schema-on-write.
As we progressed to more varied datasets and analytical requirements,
the predefined schemas were not able to keep up.
Moreover, by the time the models were built and put into production,
the requirements had changed.
Schema-on-read provides the much needed flexibility to an analytical
project because you don't have to rely on physical schemas.
This improves the overall performance when it comes to high-volume data loads.
It also enables you to query the same raw dataset over and over again.
Because there are no physical constraints for the data,
it works well with datasets with undefined data structures.
There are some nice shortcuts to create tables from
the Amazon Athena Query Editor.
The screenshot on this slide shows the options.
This slide provides a sample of how to create a database and tables with Athena.
Notice that all that's being declared is the metadata for the table.
All Athena tables are referred to as external.
In the table definition shown here, we're just defining the table name,
the column names, the data types,
and where the data is going to reside without physically touching the data.
Notice the S3 path stops at data/*.
This will scan all objects under that root versus if you
wanted to scan one of the objects, you'd add the object name to the S3 path.
The table name is access_logs, a string and a timestamp column are declared,
the row format is delimited by fields terminated by
a tab and stored as a text file,
and the data catalog contains the SerDe information.
Everything under that root, data/*, is surrounded by a red rectangle.
This is a generic CREATE DATABASE statement in Amazon Athena.
I'll be showing you how to do that in the upcoming demo.
This is a generic Amazon Athena CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE syntax,
which we'll be doing in the upcoming demo as well.
This is a really good link if you want to know all about the
properties that are necessary or optional in an Amazon Athena
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE statement,
and this is a generic CREATE TABLE AS SELECT statement.
This is a really good link to find out everything about
how to properly create CTAS statements.
The next section is a demo section where we'll take a
tour around the Amazon Athena console,
create a database and a table in Amazon Athena, and query the data with SQL in the Athena Query Editor.